This is my solution to an assignment of ANU course *Introduction to Data Management, Analysis and Security*. There is a Jupyter notebook that contains the assignment specifications and spaces to fill in the code and comments. By finishing this assignment, one can have a good understanding of the popular data analysis libraries, such as numpy, pandas, matplotlib, seaborn.  

## Introduction
**Bicycle Sharing Systems** are a healthy, cheap and green way to navigate between one place to another. Now with the new generation of electronic registration and sharing, the whole process of transportation, right from the membership to the rental and returning back has become convenient and automatic. Through these systems, user is able to easily rent a bike from a particular position and return back at another position. Bike sharing companies like Mobike, OBike and AirBike have grown pretty popular throughout Australia in the past few years, due to them being environment-friendly, pro-health and not to mention, a cheap and convenient mode of transport.  

Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being generated by these systems make them attractive for research. Opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, **the duration of travel**, **departure** and **arrival position** is explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that most of important events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.  

## Data
You have been given a file named **bike-share.csv** which contains a dataset of two years of historical log corresponding to years 2011 and 2012 from Capital Bikeshare System, Washington D.C., USA. The dataset has 15 attributes such as **date, weekday/weekend/public holiday, weather situation, temperature** and **the count of number of bikes rented on that day**. Based on this data, our primary aim in this assignment is to visualise and analyse any insights we can get from this data and then predict a trend in the bike rentals.  

Refer to **bike-share-README.txt** for more information on the various attributes present in this data.  

## Note
If you are an ANU student, please **DO NOT** plagiarize any code snippet of my work, otherwise you may breach **[Academic Integrity and Misconduct](https://cecs.anu.edu.au/current-students/policies-and-resources/academic-integrity-and-misconduct)**.  
